#summary The release notes for the latest version of REsync

= Version 2.0 =
== Released 11/XX/2010 ==
  * Added [http://code.google.com/p/crt-resync/issues/detail?id=3 enhancement #3] to the [UserManual#RETS_DATA_FETCH rets_data_fetch] component.  You can now define any number of parameters that can be passed in to the DMQL query from the command line.  See the [UserManual User Manual] for more information about how to define and pass in parameters.  *IMPORTANT NOTE!*  This feature breaks backwards compatibility for people that used date entry parameters in prior versions of RESync.  Date parameters must be defined the same as any other parameter.
  * Added [http://code.google.com/p/crt-resync/issues/detail?id=4 enhancement #4] for the [UserManual#RETS_DATA_FETCH rets_data_fetch] component.  This allows you to define the delimiter for your output file in the config file.  If the delimiter is not defined then ',' will be used.
  * Changed name of README to UserManual to avoid confusion.

= Version 1.5 =
== Released 06/24/2010 ==
  * Added [http://code.google.com/p/crt-resync/issues/detail?id=1 enhancement #1] to the [UserManual#METADATA metadata] component.  List of tables for a resource and class now displays the data type.
  * Fixed [http://code.google.com/p/crt-resync/issues/detail?id=2 bug #2] for the [UserManual#OBJECT_FETCH object_fetch] component
  * Darwin executables now run on libRETS 1.5.1.  
  * Due to changes that need to be made in libRETS for the Windows Ruby bindings, the Windows executables run on libRETS 1.4.1
  * Removed Linux executable download and added a build from source download.  This was done due to issues with the library incompatibilities with the version that I built vs. the Linux distributions in the field.